.TH "XmlDocument" 3 "18 Dec 2013" "Doxygen" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
XmlDocument \- 
.PP
A XML Document.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <prophetxmldoc.h>\fP
.SS "Public Member Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXmlDocument\fP (const std::string &encoding='', const std::string &styleSheet='')"
.br
.RI "\fIConstructs a \fBXmlDocument\fP object. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual \fB~XmlDocument\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIDestructor. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "std::string \fBencoding\fP () const "
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsetEncoding\fP (const std::string &encoding='')"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "std::string \fBstyleSheet\fP () const "
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsetStyleSheet\fP (const std::string &styleSheet='')"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "bool \fBstandalone\fP () const "
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsetStandalone\fP (bool standalone)"
.br
.RI "\fIset the output document as standalone or not. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsetRootElement\fP (\fBXmlElement\fP *rootElement)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXmlElement\fP & \fBrootElement\fP () const "
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "std::string \fBtoString\fP () const "
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "std::string \fBm_encoding\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "std::string \fBm_styleSheet\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXmlElement\fP * \fBm_rootElement\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "bool \fBm_standalone\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Private Member Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBXmlDocument\fP (const \fBXmlDocument\fP &copy)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrevents the use of the copy constructor. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBoperator=\fP (const \fBXmlDocument\fP &copy)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrevents the use of the copy operator. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
A XML Document. 

A \fBXmlDocument\fP represents a XML file. It holds a pointer on the root \fBXmlElement\fP of the document. It also holds the encoding and style sheet used.
.PP
By default, the XML document is stand-alone and tagged with enconding 'ISO-8859-1'. 
.SH "Constructor & Destructor Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "XmlDocument::XmlDocument (const std::string & encoding = \fC''\fP, const std::string & styleSheet = \fC''\fP)"
.PP
Constructs a \fBXmlDocument\fP object. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIencoding\fP Encoding used in the XML file (default is Latin-1, ISO-8859-1 ). 
.br
\fIstyleSheet\fP Name of the XSL style sheet file used. If empty then no style sheet will be specified in the output. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "XmlDocument::~XmlDocument ()\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Destructor. 
.SS "XmlDocument::XmlDocument (const \fBXmlDocument\fP & copy)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Prevents the use of the copy constructor. 
.SH "Member Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "std::string XmlDocument::encoding () const"
.SS "void XmlDocument::operator= (const \fBXmlDocument\fP & copy)\fC [private]\fP"
.PP
Prevents the use of the copy operator. 
.SS "\fBXmlElement\fP & XmlDocument::rootElement () const"
.SS "void XmlDocument::setEncoding (const std::string & encoding = \fC''\fP)"
.SS "void XmlDocument::setRootElement (\fBXmlElement\fP * rootElement)"
.SS "void XmlDocument::setStandalone (bool standalone)"
.PP
set the output document as standalone or not. For the output document, specify wether it's a standalone XML document, or not.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIstandalone\fP if true, the output will be specified as standalone. if false, it will be not. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "void XmlDocument::setStyleSheet (const std::string & styleSheet = \fC''\fP)"
.SS "bool XmlDocument::standalone () const"
.SS "std::string XmlDocument::styleSheet () const"
.SS "std::string XmlDocument::toString () const"
.SH "Member Data Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "std::string \fBXmlDocument::m_encoding\fP\fC [protected]\fP"
.SS "\fBXmlElement\fP* \fBXmlDocument::m_rootElement\fP\fC [protected]\fP"
.SS "bool \fBXmlDocument::m_standalone\fP\fC [protected]\fP"
.SS "std::string \fBXmlDocument::m_styleSheet\fP\fC [protected]\fP"

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen from the source code.
